---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "mongodb_database_document Resource - mongodb"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This resource creates a single document in a collection
  in a database on the MongoDB server.
---

# mongodb_database_document (Resource)

This resource creates a single document in a collection 
in a database on the MongoDB server.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "mongodb_database" "default" {
  name          = "default"
  force_destroy = false
}

resource "mongodb_database_collection" "users" {
  database      = mongodb_database.default.name
  name          = "users"
  force_destroy = false
}

resource "mongodb_database_document" "first_user" {
  database   = mongodb_database.default.name
  collection = mongodb_database_collection.users.name
  document = jsonencode({
    name = "John Doe"
    age  = 25
  })
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `collection` (String) Name of the collection to create the document in.
- `database` (String) Name of the database to create the collection in.
- `document` (String) <p>Document to insert into the collection.</p>  <p>The value of this attribute is a stringified JSON. Note that you should escape every double quote in the JSON string.</p>  <p>In terraform, you can achieve this by simply using the <code>jsonencode</code> function:</p>  <pre><code class="language-terraform">document = jsonencode({ key = "value" })</code></pre>  <p><a href="https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/mongodb-extended-json/#std-label-mongodb-extended-json-v2" target="_blank">EJSON</a> is supported in this attribute.</p>

### Optional

- `sync_with_database` (Boolean) <p>If this option is true, the provider will ensure that the document in the Terraform state is in sync with the document in the database. In other words, it will ensure the data consistency between the document in the Terraform state and the document in the database. This means that the provider will fail to go through plan or apply stages if the document in the database is different from the document in the Terraform state.</p>  <p>In contrast, if this option is false, the provider will ignore the consistency between the document in the Terraform state and the document in the database.</p>  <p>This is useful when you want to manage the document whose counterpart in the database is managed by another system (i.e. the document can be changed by other systems than Terraform) but still want to perform CRUD operations on the document in the database with Terraform.</p>  <p>It is IMPORTANT to note that if you once set this option either to true or false, you cannot change it back to the other value. This is due to <a href="https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/plugin/sdkv2/resources/data-consistency-errors" target="_blank">terraform SDKv2&rsquo;s data consistency rules</a>, keeping the resource state immutable once you set the value from the terraform side, and it is impossible to modify the value from the provider side if there are differences between the state and the database document.</p>  <p>This value is true by default.</p>

### Read-Only

- `document_id` (String) Document ID of the document.
- `id` (String) <p>Resource identifier.</p>  <p>ID has a value with a format of the following:</p>  <pre><code class="">databases/<database>/collections/<name>/documents/<document_id></code></pre>  <p>Note that this format is used for importing the resource into Terraform state. Import the resource using the following command:</p>  <pre><code class="language-bash">terraform import mongodb_database_document.<resource_name> databases/<database>/collections/<name>/documents/<document_id></code></pre>
